In the current lesson, we will make all UI elements invisible when our character dies and add an additional
UI widget that will be displayed in spectator mode.
Let's start by declaring the functions we need. The first function will be called IsPlayerAlive.
It will return true when charter is alive and false when dead.
And the second function will be called IsPlayerSpactating.
It will return true when we are in observer mode.
In the IsPlayerAlive function, we will also use the health component, so we will separate the code for getting it
into a separate GetHealthComponent method.
Add a forward declaration at the top of our file. Let's create a body for each function in a .cpp file.
Let's start with the GetHealthComponent method. Let's copy GetWeaponComponent and replace weapon with health everywhere.
We replace the code for obtaining the health component in the GetHealthPercent function.
Let's write the code for the IsPlayerAlive function.
In the health component, we have a method called IsDead and it returns true when our character is dead.
Therefore, the character is alive when we have a health component and when the IsDead function returned false.
After the death of the character, our controller is captured by the spectator pawn, so
the IsDead function in our current logic will never return true.
The condition that the character has died will be determined by a
null pointer to the health component. Next, go to the IsPlayerSpactating function.
The function for getting the current player controller in the user widget is called GetOwningPlayer.
Not the best name for a getter function for a controller, but we can't do anything about it this engine API.
We are in the observer state when the pointer to our controller is not null
and when the controller's GetStateName function returns NAME_Spectating.
We used the setter function, set the state values
when the character dies, and now we are reading this value.
Let's figure out the visibility of our elements, select the progress bar and in the details panel we find in the category behavior
property Visibility. Click create binding. We call the function IsPlayerAlive.
Find the IsPlayerAlive function we just created. Let's use the select node we are familiar with.
We connect it to the output parameter of the function. Visibility is an enum, the value of which is generally responsible for
whether the element will be shown or not. If IsPlayerAlive returns false, then set the element to Hidden.
If true, then leave Visible. Select the crosshair element, also go to the property Visibility and select
our IsPlayerAlive function, and do the same for the horizontal box.
That is, we use the same function for all three elements. Let's check. We run into our sphere.
All custom elements are now invisible. Let's create an additional widget.
Let's call it spectator HUD and show this widget when the player is in spectator mode.
We open the widget. Let's add an element called the throbber. In fact, this is a kind of preloader
that will rotate when our character is killed.
Let's add a text block as well.
Let's enter the value into the text - dead.
Let's use another element called overlay.
It is a container that helps to group elements and arrange them in layers, that is, one on top of the other.
Add text and preloader to this container and resize it. Let's put, for example, SizeX = 200 and SizeY also 200.
Let's center the text in the container. Let's choose horizontal alignment in the middle and vertical alignment in the middle.
For the preloader, we will choose an alignment in which the element completely fills the container.
The throbber has several useful settings. The number of segments can be selected.
For example, enter 14. 14 circles will rotate. For example, put a period of 2. They will rotate a little slower.
And let's put some kind of red.
Compile the widget. Go to the player HUD.
Each widget can contain other widgets, so if we open the user created category in the palette, we will see the
spectator HUD we have created. Add it to the viewport and make the alignment the same as for the scope.
That is, anchor in the middle and alignment (0.5, 0.5) It
remains to figure out the visibility of this widget. Also, go to the behavior
category in the property Visibility. Click bind.
create binding We
call the function IsPlayerSpectating.
And let's use our sPlayerSpectating C ++ function.
We select select, substitute it in output.
If the player is in observer mode, then Visibility = true, if not - Hidden.
Checking.
We run into our volume. All elements are gone, the observer widget is visible.
Let's open the Spectator HUD again. Click on the text and at the bottom there is a window called Animation.
Press the + button. We call the animation TextBlinking. Next, go to the track button, select the text.
An element was created on the TextBlock_85 timeline. Let's rename it to DeadTextBlock.
Let's add color animation. The UE has an animation editor in UMG that allows you to
animate various property UI elements. Click on our text box plus track and select color and opacity.
By default, we have one frame. We can move the slider by 0.35 fractions of a second
and press the + button. This adds an extra keyframe. Let's make the color red.
Next, move the slider to 0.7, press plus, add a keyframe and return the color to white.
Thus, we have got a mini animation. It will be played real-time.
You can also press the space bar to play the animation. The last thing we need to do is
start playing this animation when the game starts. In the panel on the left, we have a variable that
is responsible for animation, it is called TextBlinking. And on this object, we need to call the PlayAnimation function.
The function has several input parameters, but we are interested in NumLoopsToPlay.
If the value is set to zero, the animation will play endlessly in a loop.
Widgets don't have the familiar BeginPlay function. There is an EventConstruct here. In general, you can run animation on this event.
But we will all dynamically delete and add a widget to the viewport, then this event will be
called every time it is added. There is another event that looks more like BeginPlay.
It is called OnInitialized, and it will only be called once at the start of the game.
We launch. We run into our volume and the animation of the text is also played.
And the last moment. We just created a widget for our main widget
and in general it would be logical to group our life, sight and weapon elements into a separate widget.
And set the Visibility to the whole widget, not individual elements.
But 3 elements are not so many, so this is more information for thought and possibly future refactoring.